# Subsurface-Current-Sensor
Deployable low cost DIY sensor buoy for logging subsurface current speed, direction, water temperature, etc at common recreational diving depths (0-130ft)

We aim to develop an automated sensor and data logger device that could be cheaply ($60?) built leveraging common components and 3d printable parts. A device that could be deployed via scuba on for several months to collect automated time series data such as water current speeds, direction, temperature, salinity, etc. 
Similar to the open source CTD stratagy of oceanographyforeveryone.com, this project aims to enable researchers and marine enthusiasts by reduce the financial barrier to collecting key data about our underwater world at scale. The initial design is focused on an negatively buoyant, entirely subsurface tilt sensor. This would allow it to be “hung” from existing structures (with owner permission) that are already permitted and avoid often length regulatory processes often faced by new deployments. In areas where no such structure exists a simple subsurface float could be attached to a temporary anchor.

Our pilot project is in the Salish sea of Washington state where there is an opportunity to model currents and temperatures at the highly-specific locations used for recreational scuba diving. This should allow the development of better current prediction guidelines for the local dive community. Site specific water quality data would also be valuable for modeling and better understanding trends observed in existing volunteer marine species monitoring projects at these same locations such as the Reef.org fish survey project, reefcheck.org kelp monitoring surveys, the YOY Rockfish survey, etc.
